.TH bin2c "2013-09-29" "hxtools" "hxtools"
.SH Name
.PP
bin2c \(em embed data files into C as variables
.SH Syntax
.PP
\fBbin2c\fP [\fB\-C\fP \fIprogram-file\fP] [\fB\-H\fP \fIheader-file\fP]
[\fB\-G\fP \fIguard-name\fP] [\fB\-v\fP] [\fB\-\-wxbitmap\fP] \fIfile\fP...
.SH Description
.PP
bin2c converts files to C variables. It does so by reading the contents of each
file supplied on the argument line and writes out C program code that defines a
variable with the file's contents.
.PP
hxtools's bin2c implementation supports:
.IP \(bu 4
space-efficient encoding of the arbitrary data
.IP \(bu 4
multiple input files
.IP \(bu 4
creation of either a standalone .h file, or a .c/.h file pair. (See
examples below.)
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-C\fP \fIfile\fP
If specified, causes the variable \fBdefinition\fP to be emitted to the given
filename.
.TP
\fB\-G\fP \fIname\fP
Request that an include guard by the identifier \fIguard-name\fP is emitted
into the header file. If \-C was specified and a .c/.h pair is generated, an
include guard is always emitted, and the \-G option can be used to set that
name.
.TP
\fB\-H\fP \fIfile\fP
The file where the variable \fBdeclarations\fP will be emitted to. If \fB\-C\fP
was not specified, \fIh-file\fP will not contain any header guard by default,
and it will contain the variable definition, the latter of which will be marked
as \fBstatic\fP (file scope).
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Be verbose. Show all the names and filenames that bin2c will write.
.TP
\fB\-\-wxbitmap\fP
Generate C++ code that generates wxBitmap objects.
.SH Examples
.PP
To generate a single C header file that behaves like XPM files and which is
suitable for inclusion into a C program file of your own:
.PP
bin2c \-H images.h foo.png bar.png
.PP
To generate a .c/.h pair instead, the invocation is:
.PP
bin2c \-C images.c foo.png bar.png
.PP
This will create a C program file "images.c" containing all the definitions
and a "images.h" that your code can use to get ahold of the declarations.
.SH History
.PP
hxtools's bin2c developed from the earlier png2wx.pl utility.
